This project creates a spatiotemporal grid of latitudes and longitudes for points on the globe within a bounding box of two pre-selected ports, using the NetworkX package's Djikstra algorithm for graphs with edge orientation. This is analogous to a 3d graph. The model tries to find the optimal path by minimizing the weight of the overall path by calculating the distance between each node. This is implemented by extracting the wind vector direction of the closest coordinate in the hrrr dataset, and taking the dot product between the wind direction and the ship travel direction. Nodes on land are eliminated by verifying that they are not inside the land polygons of natural earth 10m land data.

Some issues remain with the model, one being that river and lake detection remains problematic, due to the isue of conflicting polygons which persist when using union_all() on those datasets. Land node removal is based on nodes, rather than edges, which becomes inaccurate if the distance between two nodes is larger than a land mass between them. Grid generation is based on the midpoint between the two ports, which means that the bounding box error can be encountered if the midpoint of two ports is close to the poles, making the bounding box very small latitude wise. Additionally, due to the hrrr dataset which records only 16 datasets based on 16 time data points, the model is limited to paths 15 steps or fewer. Velocity is also implicitly embedded in the dataset and path choices, rather than being independent. Addditionally, island detection is not yet implemented.
